<main class="html-publication" lang="en" role="main">
      

  <div class="publication-external">
    <ul class="organisation-logos">
        <li class="organisation-logos__logo">
          
<div class="gem-c-organisation-logo">
    <a class="gem-c-organisation-logo__container gem-c-organisation-logo__link " href="/government/organisations/veterans-advisory-and-pensions-committees-x13">
      <span class="gem-c-organisation-logo__name">Veterans Advisory and <br>Pensions Committees</span>
</a>
</div>
        </li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <header class="gem-c-inverse-header  gem-c-inverse-header--padding-top ">
    
  

<div class="gem-c-title gem-c-title--inverse govuk-!-margin-top-8 govuk-!-margin-bottom-0">
      <span class="govuk-caption-xl gem-c-title__context">
    Guidance
  </span>


  <h1 class="gem-c-title__text govuk-heading-xl">
    VAPC south west England: meeting minutes 27 April 2021
  </h1>
</div>
  <p class="publication-header__last-changed">Updated 4 July 2022</p>

  </header>






<div class="govuk-grid-row sidebar-with-body" data-module="sticky-element-container">
    <div class="govuk-grid-column-one-quarter-from-desktop contents-list-container">
        <nav aria-label="Contents" class="gem-c-contents-list" data-module="gem-track-click" role="navigation">
    <h2 class="gem-c-contents-list__title">
      Contents
</h2>
    <ol class="gem-c-contents-list__list">
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 1" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#attendance" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Attendance&quot;}" href="#attendance">Attendance</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 2" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#minutes" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Minutes&quot;}" href="#minutes">Minutes</a>

        </li>
    </ol>
</nav>
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>

  <div class="print-wrapper">
    <div class="print-meta-data">
      <p>
  <img class="print-meta-data-licence" src="/assets/government-frontend/open-government-licence-min-93b6a51b518ff99714a1aa2a7d2162735c155ec3cb073c75fb88b2a332fa83d3.png">
</p>
<p>
  © Crown copyright 2022
</p>
<p>
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit <a href="https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3">nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3</a> or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: <a href="mailto:psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk">psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
</p>
<p>
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vapc-south-west-england-meeting-minutes/vapc-south-west-england-meeting-minutes-27-april-2021
</p>


    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="main-content-container">
    <div class="gem-c-govspeak-html-publication">
  
<div class="gem-c-govspeak govuk-govspeak " data-module="govspeak">
    
    
      <div class="govspeak">
<h2>Attendance</h2>

<h3>Committee members</h3>

<ul>
  <li>Paul Cartwright - Chair (PC)</li>
  <li>Jeff Spencer - Vice-Chair (JS)</li>
  <li>Tony Thompson (TT)</li>
  <li>Anica Alvarez Nishio (AAN)</li>
  <li>Andrew Ottaway (AO)</li>
  <li>David Wood (DW)</li>
  <li>Hamilton Elliott (HE)</li>
  <li>Ben Obese-Jecty (BOJ)</li>
  <li>Chris Rose (CRO)</li>
  <li>Charlie Radclyffe (CRA)</li>
  <li>Guy Williams (GW)</li>
  <li>Lee Bushby (LB)</li>
  <li>Duncan Tilley (DT)</li>
  <li>Franklin O-Antwi (FOA)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Guest attending</h3>

<ul>
  <li>Arren Hymas (AH) – Defence Transition Service, Regional Manager (South)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Apologies</h3>

<ul>
  <li>Emma Jones (Veterans Welfare Service)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Declaration of interest by all</h3>

<p>There were no declarations of conflicting interests.</p>

<h2>Minutes</h2>

<h3>Chair’s welcome (PC)</h3>

<p>PC was impressed by the amount of work recently undertaken by the committee in improving its professionalism.  PC is keen for the committee to identify ways to improve our evidence-gathering capability, particularly identifying individual cases to guide VAPC action.</p>

<h3>Vice-chair’s briefing (JS)</h3>

<p>JS is keen for SW teams to create products that the rest of the committee and other regions can use.</p>

<p>There is a need for broader awareness of VAPC work.  JS asked members to think of ways to share the good work we are doing with the wider veteran community.  One proposal was to include more detail about the VAPC in the annual Veterans UK pension letter.</p>

<p>JS suggested that the committee’s greatest strength is in gathering evidence to encourage collaborative working and guide policy changes.  He proposed that the committee, whenever possible, avoid complex casework and use charities or other expertise to address individual cases, with the committee focusing on monitoring the cases and assessing their regional prevalence.</p>

<p>PC re Casework: VetsUK to provide their policy, VAPC regions to review VetsUK’s actions and monitor if they are meeting their policy; i.e. are they “Policy compliant”.  Even if VetsUK have done things correctly, but a veteran has suffered, we should highlight how the policy is flawed and how processes can be improved for future cases.  PC asked members to consider whether there are any class action pension cases.</p>

<h3>Coordination Team, recent progress (CRO)</h3>

<p>CRO detailed the team’s work in reaching out to other VAPC secretaries.  Ongoing research into the use of @vapc.org.uk web domain for members’ emails and CRA to develop a briefing to share with VAPC(SE).  All teams are to make greater use of the VFR Hub, particularly the National area.</p>

<h3>Communications, south-west (LB)</h3>

<p>LB described two sets of PowerPoint briefing packs for members to use for future presentations with external bodies.</p>

<p>JS requested that members record all external briefings on an SW VAPC report as part of an audit and learning process.</p>

<p>Future Comms work will focus on: Database re planned and previous engagements; Comms plan to share with stakeholders; develop a social media presence (Twitter, Facebook); research the impact of predicated demographic changes in the SW, and share our vision with the many regiments (fulltime and reserves) based in the SW.</p>

<h3>Regional Covenant (TT)</h3>

<p>The council forms a hub that provides information and training to the 33 local authorities in the south-west, and TT met the <a class="govuk-link" href="https://swcouncils.gov.uk/" rel="external">South West Councils’</a> Chief Executive and Business manager.  TT informed them about the VAPC and will write a news piece on the VAPC for the SW Council May newsletter.</p>

<h3>Defence Transition Service (AH)</h3>

<p>DTS commenced 18 months ago, and DTS (South) has handled 129 referrals.  Current caseload: 90.  Recent changes: Introduction of JSP 100, HARD FACTS, tri-service skills package, and change to CTP eligibility re length of service (from summer 2021).  DTS external focus has been on raising awareness of the DTS/VWS by the third sector/NHS/public sector.  The focus will now move towards military units.  The next internal focus is to collaborate more with the VWS.  DTS are happy for the VAPC to propose areas of interest and see if DTS can help gather relevant data.</p>

<h3>Project proposal: Review of Veterans UK effectiveness (DW)</h3>

<p>Scoping exercise re what VetsUK does, its relationship with the VAPC and how the VAPC undertakes its role.  Understand the processes, monitor the implementation of current policy, gather evidence on complaints, investigate the results, and make appropriate recommendations.  DW to produce a project proposal briefing.</p>

<h3>Benchmarking (AAN)</h3>

<p>New research into developing best practices.  Initially to learn from local organisations/councils/other VAPCs, and longer-term to set metrics and process data.</p>

<h3>Criminal Justice (TT)</h3>

<p>TT summarised his meetings with the Committee on the Network for Ex-Service Personnel (NESP) project and the Civil Service project lead for HM Prison &amp; Probation Service (HMPPS), Directorate of Safety and Rehabilitation Warrington.  PC enquired about whether the project focuses on those leaving Colchester military prison or looking at veteran matters in the wider prison population.  TT explained that the project is considering all veteran-prisoner related matters.  TT to produce a project briefing.</p>

<h3>Health (AO)</h3>

<p>AO met with Kernow local medical committees who represent local GPs.  Their following newsletter will include NHS covenant commitment, Op courage, Registering veteran/serving status on computer systems, and RCGP veteran-friendly GP accreditation scheme.  AO to continue to try to start a dialogue with the Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust (RCHT) to create a dedicated Armed Forces Community Lead.  JS attended the National VAPC Health &amp; Well-being forum on 22 Apr. He requested that this forum make recommendations on the best available marketing material to be used by regional members. AO will take over JS’s role as SW rep on this national forum with immediate effect.</p>

<h3>Casework (HE)</h3>

<p>PC commented that over the last 2.5 years, the committee was issued four official cases from VetsUK.  Two have been closed, and one is ongoing.  VetsUK doesn’t explain their decisions to the committee, limiting the committee’s ability to learn from those decisions.  PC to contact Jane Thompson at VetsUK to start a better dialogue on how we can learn from VetsUK decisions.</p>

<p>PC is keen to identify generic issues rather than just individual ones.  PC will contact HE and DCW to discuss ideas.</p>

<p>JS described a military pension problem that some veterans encounter at the age of 65, re National Insurance contributions.  VetsUK is aware of the problem.  JS asked Vets UK the size and nature of the problem, what is VetsUK doing about it, and why it occurred in the first place.  JS to continue dialogue with VetsUK and escalate as necessary.</p>

<p>PC reminded the committee that some service leavers would not have a complete set of national insurance contributions, resulting in a lower state pension at their retirement age.  An area for the committee to consider is how to better inform service personnel and veterans.  Casework team to consider future action.</p>

<h3>Veteran Hubs (CRO)</h3>

<p>CRO detailed the Shadbolt paper and his discussion with the author about setting up regional veterans hubs similar to those in Exeter, Plymouth and other locations.  OVA have asked Simon Shadbolt and Mark Littlewood (Exeter Hub manager) to prepare a framework proposal.  CRO to share an early draft, once produced, to share with the committee for comment.</p>

<h3>Committee transition procedures</h3>

<p>The committee felt that those serving the committee should be formally thanked at the end of their term, both by the committee and the Minister.  PC to raise this with Chairs.</p>

<h3>Foreign and Commonwealth (FCO) veterans</h3>

<p>BOJ asked whether there are any instances in the south-west of FCO veterans having problems with visa applications and the associated costs.  JS offered to put BOJ in touch with a former VAPC(SW) member involved with this problem.  HE spoke of one FCO veteran whom he had assisted for three years and how challenging these cases are.  PC stated that whilst this is one of the OVA’s top priorities, the decision largely falls to the Home Office.</p>

<p>Post-meeting - BOJ and Col (Ret’d) Roland -Jones connected.</p>

<h3>Future meetings</h3>

<p>JS reiterated the value of meeting in person.  PC is happy for the meeting schedule to be adjusted to enable maximum member attendance.  CRA to look into options for the July meeting.</p>

<p>CRA to consider guests to invite to future meetings.</p>

<h3>Summary</h3>

<p>PC said that he thought that this was an excellent meeting and that the use of Zoom is challenging with so many topics to discuss.  Key outcomes are the secretary’s record of decisions and the encouragement of people to do the things they’ve offered/been asked to do (e.g. checking bios or the such-like).</p>

</div>


</div>
</div>
  </div>

  <div class="sticky-element" data-sticky-element="">
    <a class="govuk-link app-c-back-to-top dont-print" href="#contents">
    <svg class="app-c-back-to-top__icon" focusable="false" height="17" viewBox="0 0 13 17" width="13" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
      <path d="M6.5 0L0 6.5 1.4 8l4-4v12.7h2V4l4.3 4L13 6.4z" fill="currentColor"></path>
    </svg>
    Contents
</a>

    <div class="sticky-element__print-link">
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

    </main>