<main class="html-publication" lang="en" role="main">
      

  <div class="publication-external">
    <ul class="organisation-logos">
        <li class="organisation-logos__logo">
          
<div class="gem-c-organisation-logo">
    <a class="gem-c-organisation-logo__container gem-c-organisation-logo__link " href="/government/organisations/veterans-advisory-and-pensions-committees-x13">
      <span class="gem-c-organisation-logo__name">Veterans Advisory and <br>Pensions Committees</span>
</a>
</div>
        </li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <header class="gem-c-inverse-header  gem-c-inverse-header--padding-top ">
    
  

<div class="gem-c-title gem-c-title--inverse govuk-!-margin-top-8 govuk-!-margin-bottom-0">
      <span class="govuk-caption-xl gem-c-title__context">
    Guidance
  </span>


  <h1 class="gem-c-title__text govuk-heading-xl">
    VAPC south west England: meeting minutes 7 June 2022
  </h1>
</div>
  <p class="publication-header__last-changed">Updated 4 July 2022</p>

  </header>






<div class="govuk-grid-row sidebar-with-body" data-module="sticky-element-container">
    <div class="govuk-grid-column-one-quarter-from-desktop contents-list-container">
        <nav aria-label="Contents" class="gem-c-contents-list" data-module="gem-track-click" role="navigation">
    <h2 class="gem-c-contents-list__title">
      Contents
</h2>
    <ol class="gem-c-contents-list__list">
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 1" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#attendance" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Attendance&quot;}" href="#attendance">Attendance</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 2" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#minutes" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Minutes&quot;}" href="#minutes">Minutes</a>

        </li>
    </ol>
</nav>
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>

  <div class="print-wrapper">
    <div class="print-meta-data">
      <p>
  <img class="print-meta-data-licence" src="/assets/government-frontend/open-government-licence-min-93b6a51b518ff99714a1aa2a7d2162735c155ec3cb073c75fb88b2a332fa83d3.png">
</p>
<p>
  © Crown copyright 2022
</p>
<p>
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit <a href="https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3">nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3</a> or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: <a href="mailto:psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk">psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
</p>
<p>
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vapc-south-west-england-meeting-minutes/vapc-south-west-england-meeting-minutes-7-june-2022
</p>


    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="main-content-container">
    <div class="gem-c-govspeak-html-publication">
  
<div class="gem-c-govspeak govuk-govspeak " data-module="govspeak">
    
    
      <div class="govspeak">
<h4>Meeting time</h4>
<p>10am</p>

<h4>Meeting location</h4>
<p>The Rifles, Taunton, Somerset</p>

<h2>Attendance</h2>

<h4>Committee members attending:</h4>
<p>Paul Cartwright (Chair) (PC)
Jeff Spencer (Vice-Chair) (JS)
Anica Alvarez Nishio (AAN)
Amanda Brown (AB)
Michael Bryan (MB)
Kieran Bird (KB)
Hamilton Elliott (HE)
Emlyn Phennah (EP)
Charlie Radclyffe (Secretary) (CRa)
Chris Rose (CRo)
Tony Thompson (TT)
Guy Williams (GW)</p>

<h4>Guests:</h4>
<p>Arren Hymes (DTS) - AH</p>

<h4>Apologies:</h4>
<p>Rachel Brannagan (RB)
Lee Bushby (LB)
Ben Obese-Jecty (BOJ)
Philip Orr (PO)
Andrew Ottaway (AO)
Franklin Owusu-Antwi (FOA)
Abbie Pierce (AP)
Duncan Tilley (DT)
David Wood (DW)
Emma Jones (VWS) - EJ</p>

<h4>Declaration of Interest</h4>

<p>While the <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> SW Committee recognises the importance of avoiding conflicts of interest, it also recognises benefits drawn from the lived experience of its members.&nbsp;We, therefore, operate a policy of naming and noting any activities or experiences which could be considered conflicts while concurrently actively drawing upon the widest experiences of its members to inform its work.&nbsp;At all times, we endeavour to clarify explicitly when members are acting on behalf of the committee and when they are acting as private individuals.&nbsp;No conflicts of interest were declared for this meeting.</p>

<h2>Minutes</h2>

<h4>Chair’s introduction and welcome</h4>

<p>The meeting opened at 1000.&nbsp;PC welcomed the members of <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> with an especially warm welcome to the newly recruited members.</p>

<h4>Independent Veterans Advisor (IVA) Feedback</h4>

<p>JS gave an overview of the April visit by IVA David Richmond to the <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> SW symposium at RAF St Mawgan.&nbsp; He clarified the independence and reporting structure of the role of the IVA and that the <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> do not report to the IVA but to the Minister for Defence People and Veterans (MinDPV).&nbsp;The symposium was successful at bringing together serving personnel, veterans, members of numerous organisations supporting veterans and the wider veteran-aware community.&nbsp;Its success has been noted as a role model for similar events nationwide.&nbsp; It is hoped a similar event will be organised for Spring 2023 in another county within SW: those who may be interested in organising should step forward.</p>

<h4>Feedback on 11 May Chairs &amp; MinDPV meeting and 12 May <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> Chairs meeting</h4>

<p>PC gave an overview: MinDPV broadly supportive of <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr>, acknowledged the need for clarity around <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> role and related statutory instrument and governance documents.&nbsp;He is hoping to put forward a private member’s bill, which he thinks will be popular. Brigadier Hull is now in place and minded to improve the relationship with VetsUK (bearing in mind this is one small piece of her brief). Nonetheless, post-meeting Rob Rowntree of VetsUK contacted PC to follow up and begin working on priorities.&nbsp;Much enthusiasm in the room; will be seen whether this translates into meaningfully improved communication from Departments of State (MoD/Vets UK).</p>

<h4>SW TOR report - Sept 2022</h4>

<p>TOR report areas were merged into existing SW teams, with attending members confirming their positions.&nbsp;TOR areas of research included: OP COURAGE, data-sharing and HARDFACTS, VetsUK assessment, Housing, Veterans and the Law, Transition, and Public Perception.&nbsp;While traditionally, we would have had further discussion on team allocation, given the change in ways of working due to Paul’s departure, the timing of the summer holidays and the need to produce the SW report for inclusion in the national TOR report to Min DPV in the autumn, JS, CRo and AAN working together have decided to allocate team placements.&nbsp;Hopefully, these will be acceptable in the short term and will be re-evaluated at the October Quarterly Meeting.&nbsp;Team Leads should engage with their teams to finalise and circulate action points by 27 June 2022 and be prepared to brief at the next monthly meeting.</p>

<p>Teams should work to the goal of producing a paragraph or two on their specialist area <strong>by 15 September</strong>, in time for the Autumn TOR Report.&nbsp;Please see the timetable below:</p>

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>15 September</td>
      <td>Draft team inputs</td>
      <td>SW members to AAN</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>19 September</td>
      <td>Draft November 2022 <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> SW TOR</td>
      <td>AAN to SW members</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>22 September</td>
      <td>Edits and comments on draft SW report</td>
      <td>SW members to AAN</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>25 September</td>
      <td>Final draft circulated&nbsp;</td>
      <td>AAN to SW members</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>27 September</td>
      <td>Locked draft agreed at Sept Quarterly&nbsp;</td>
      <td>ALL</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>29 September</td>
      <td>SW report sent to Chairs</td>
      <td>AAN</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<h4>Veterans Welfare Service (VWS) and Defence Transition Services (DTS)</h4>

<p>PC welcomed Arran Hymes who gave an overview of their remit: a limited staff for the most severely challenged service leavers, organising multidisciplinary teams to access health and social care.&nbsp; Focussing on DTS (VWS were not available), Arran Hymes explained that there are numerous continuity and data management issues and inconsistencies across units during the transition to civilian life, which they continue to try to work to resolve, as well as issues of safeguarding, etc.&nbsp;DTS services are provided from two years pre-discharged until two years post-discharge (and, in practice, longer). Even if the veteran declines at first, the option for support remains open.</p>

<h4>National communications</h4>

<p>Following a request to Chairs for essential support on comms from our sponsor, a point of contact has been appointed at Vets UK (Jo McGhee).&nbsp; An initial meeting between JS/JM established the context for our needs.&nbsp; JM is meeting the Government Gateway team, and JS has requested he attend.  From a SW perspective, JS is keen to get a fresh pair of eyes to look at <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> comms generally, and CRa and AAN are keen to refresh or reconfigure the G-Drive (and/or other file storage system) from the ground up, reducing folders and instituting a consistent, logical system for record-keeping.&nbsp; If one of the new members would like to step forward to take on this task, it would be much appreciated.</p>

<h4>Post-meeting note</h4>

<p>JS attended the virtual brief on the Vets UK digitisation project.  This project is progressing well but, significantly, does not include issues, feedback and complaints.  This will be addressed in Stage 2.  <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> needs to be involved at an early stage of this enhancement and JS will raise this at Chairs on 15 Jun 22.</p>

<h4>National working groups</h4>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>Support:&nbsp;CRo reported there had been one meeting, with a further one planned for later that day, during which Graham Cable (<abbr title="South East">SE</abbr>) will outline the plans for <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> member training, including induction for new members; he welcomed the SW onboarding work, which would serve as a useful basis for other regions. Half the secretaries attended.&nbsp;There is momentum to build on this.&nbsp;Induction and Comms are now part of the Support brief.&nbsp;CRa requested that someone on Support team helps maintain a record of FOI so as to have a single repository and avoid duplication (see below).</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Vets and the Law:&nbsp;TT reported the next meeting is 8/7.&nbsp;The focus is to get information out to police, commissioners, and chiefs to inform and engage.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Transition: GW reported UK is trying to get AF liaison officers (as Wales has).&nbsp;Wants to ask MOD for more info on CTT.  Would like to share job applications. He is also planning to talk with John Stephenson, Forces Transition Group.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Health:&nbsp;MB said he would join this group, which will become a national working group</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<h4>Coordination with RFCA &amp; HQSW&nbsp;</h4>

<p>CRo reported the potential for interaction.&nbsp;Col McDade is focused on serving soldiers, though keen to help with vets, transition, and hold regional surgeries.&nbsp;This is an opportunity to come up with a three-year strategy and set targets.&nbsp;There is a potential for forums and similar activities alongside the HQ SW county surges.&nbsp;We might consider having a presence/staffing a table at these regional events.&nbsp;CRo to send out details with Minutes.</p>

<h4>Veterans People, Pathways and Places&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</h4>

<p>Naomi Adie is charged with bringing the SW together.  Invictus is being paid and is responsible for identifying all the little charities which need to be connected: who they are, and what they do.  KB to bring her to the next meeting.</p>

<h4>Round table</h4>

<p>TT attended SWAFPB North Somerset.&nbsp; Reported knowledge of serving personnel about the Covenant is decreasing.  Dept of Work and Pensions has 50 people employed and is worried about the central government withdrawing funding.  25 &amp; 26 June are Armed Forces Outreach days.&nbsp; The Warrior programme has lottery funding for 3-4 years: hybrid online and face-to-face course provider.</p>

<h4>FOI requests&nbsp;</h4>

<p>There was a general consensus that it would be advantageous to have a national record of <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> FOI requests to avoid duplication of efforts. Based on his extensive knowledge and his ability to leverage this to assist veterans more widely, PC asked CRa to establish and lead this work.</p>

<h4>AOB</h4>

<p>PC announced his resignation with immediate effect due to conflict of interest, other professional commitments and, primarily, his regard for the calibre of the new recruits and the high level of expertise on the committee overall.</p>

<p>NB.  Please would everyone circulate their TOR team action points/targets by Tuesday, 21 June, or as soon as possible afterwards</p>

</div>


</div>
</div>
  </div>

  <div class="sticky-element" data-sticky-element="">
    <a class="govuk-link app-c-back-to-top dont-print" href="#contents">
    <svg class="app-c-back-to-top__icon" focusable="false" height="17" viewBox="0 0 13 17" width="13" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
      <path d="M6.5 0L0 6.5 1.4 8l4-4v12.7h2V4l4.3 4L13 6.4z" fill="currentColor"></path>
    </svg>
    Contents
</a>

    <div class="sticky-element__print-link">
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

    </main>