<main class="html-publication" lang="en" role="main">
      

  <div class="publication-external">
    <ul class="organisation-logos">
        <li class="organisation-logos__logo">
          
<div class="gem-c-organisation-logo">
    <a class="gem-c-organisation-logo__container gem-c-organisation-logo__link " href="/government/organisations/veterans-advisory-and-pensions-committees-x13">
      <span class="gem-c-organisation-logo__name">Veterans Advisory and <br>Pensions Committees</span>
</a>
</div>
        </li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <header class="gem-c-inverse-header  gem-c-inverse-header--padding-top ">
    
  

<div class="gem-c-title gem-c-title--inverse govuk-!-margin-top-8 govuk-!-margin-bottom-0">
      <span class="govuk-caption-xl gem-c-title__context">
    Guidance
  </span>


  <h1 class="gem-c-title__text govuk-heading-xl">
    VAPC south west England: meeting minutes 3 June 2019
  </h1>
</div>
  <p class="publication-header__last-changed">Updated 4 July 2022</p>

  </header>






<div class="govuk-grid-row sidebar-with-body" data-module="sticky-element-container">
    <div class="govuk-grid-column-one-quarter-from-desktop contents-list-container">
        <nav aria-label="Contents" class="gem-c-contents-list" data-module="gem-track-click" role="navigation">
    <h2 class="gem-c-contents-list__title">
      Contents
</h2>
    <ol class="gem-c-contents-list__list">
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 1" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#chairmans-welcome-and-introductions" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Chairman’s welcome and introductions&quot;}" href="#chairmans-welcome-and-introductions">Chairman’s welcome and introductions</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 2" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#minutes-of-last-meeting-and-matters-arising" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Minutes of last meeting and matters arising&quot;}" href="#minutes-of-last-meeting-and-matters-arising">Minutes of last meeting and matters arising</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 3" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#march-2019-chairs-meeting-feedback" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;March 2019 Chairs’ meeting feedback&quot;}" href="#march-2019-chairs-meeting-feedback">March 2019 Chairs’ meeting feedback</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 4" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#vapc-centenarysw-representation" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\nVAPC Centenary/SW representation&quot;}" href="#vapc-centenarysw-representation">
VAPC Centenary/SW representation</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 5" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#veterans-gateway-vg-stakeholder-group" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Veterans Gateway (VG) Stakeholder Group&quot;}" href="#veterans-gateway-vg-stakeholder-group">Veterans Gateway (VG) Stakeholder Group</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 6" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#communications" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Communications&quot;}" href="#communications">Communications</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 7" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#vws-update" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\nVWS Update&quot;}" href="#vws-update">
VWS Update</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 8" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#covenant-activity" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Covenant Activity&quot;}" href="#covenant-activity">Covenant Activity</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 9" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#cornwall-festival-initiative" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Cornwall Festival Initiative&quot;}" href="#cornwall-festival-initiative">Cornwall Festival Initiative</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 10" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#vapc-casework" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\nVAPC Casework&quot;}" href="#vapc-casework">
VAPC Casework</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 11" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#recruiting" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Recruiting&quot;}" href="#recruiting">Recruiting</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 12" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#any-other-business" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Any other business&quot;}" href="#any-other-business">Any other business</a>

        </li>
    </ol>
</nav>
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>

  <div class="print-wrapper">
    <div class="print-meta-data">
      <p>
  <img class="print-meta-data-licence" src="/assets/government-frontend/open-government-licence-min-93b6a51b518ff99714a1aa2a7d2162735c155ec3cb073c75fb88b2a332fa83d3.png">
</p>
<p>
  © Crown copyright 2022
</p>
<p>
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit <a href="https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3">nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3</a> or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: <a href="mailto:psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk">psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
</p>
<p>
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vapc-south-west-england-meeting-minutes/vapc-south-west-england-meeting-minutes-3-june-2019
</p>


    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="main-content-container">
    <div class="gem-c-govspeak-html-publication">
  
<div class="gem-c-govspeak govuk-govspeak " data-module="govspeak">
    
    
      <div class="govspeak">
<h2>Chairman’s welcome and introductions</h2>

<p>Paul Cartwright welcomed all to the meeting, noted this would be David Luscombe’s last meeting, as he leaves Veterans Welfare Service (<abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr>) this summer, and thanked him for his contribution over many years to the <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee South West">VAPC SW</abbr>. David Luscombe was accompanied by Rachael Sergeant and introductions were made.</p>

<p>Present:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>Paul Cartwright (PC)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Ben Bennington (BB)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Tom Coyle (TC)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Ash Jones (AJ)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>David Newson (DN)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Franklin Owusu-Antwi (FO-A)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Stephen Rowland-Jones (SR-J)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Heather Smith (HS)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Jeff Spencer (JS)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Steven Turnbull (ST)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Irene Wills (IW)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>David Luscombe (DL), <abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr></p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Rachael Sergeant (RS), <abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr></p>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>Apologies:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>Chris Francis (CF)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Phil Heavey (PH)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>John Yerbury (JY)</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>Minutes of last meeting and matters arising</h2>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>Paul Cartwright  to include Members’ ideas on achieving <abbr title="South West of England">SW</abbr> <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> role and on regional and subject responsibilities in draft ‘<abbr title="South West of England">SW</abbr> <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> plan discussion paper’ by mid-May.  A discussion paper was sent out on 20 May for discussion at today’s meeting. This action is complete</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Paul Cartwright to investigate ways to achieve secretary function.  Paul Cartwright had put this on hold until the outcome of the discussion on a ‘<abbr title="South West of England">SW</abbr> Plan’ that afternoon. This action is ongoing</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Paul Cartwright to make the requirement to distribute reports and information 2 weeks prior to meetings clear in meeting calling notices. Paul Cartwright  (just) achieved this action for this meeting and some reports were sent out beforehand. This practice will become part of the <abbr title="South West of England">SW</abbr> modus operandi. This action is complete</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Jeff Spencer to update on National Comms Strategy progress at next meeting.  See communications heading below.  This action is closed</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Ben Bennington to organise a visit to Tedworth House (Help for Heroes Recovery Centre).  General agreement about the need to raise and maintain awareness of possible long-term health issues for seriously injured veterans, which will take time to become apparent.  As an action Ben Bennington proposed 10 or 24 July for a visit, agreed to put these options to all in an email and choose the most popular</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Jeff Spencer to investigate cost/feasibility of ‘overnight stay’ at <abbr title="Royal Air Forces">RAF</abbr> St Mawgan to allow planning workshop, Paul Cartwright to approach Veterans UK for authorisation.  After consulting members about availability on various dates suitable for <abbr title="Royal Air Forces">RAF</abbr> St Mawgan, it was decided to conduct a more limited session in the afternoon of this meeting.  This action is complete</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Paul Cartwright to raise 2 issues regarding pensions with head Veterans UK.  Email had been sent, awaiting response.  This action is ongoing</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>March 2019 Chairs’ meeting feedback</h2>

<p>John Yerbury attended Chairs in March and had provided feedback notes.</p>

<p>Paul Cartwright had also circulated the Summary of Actions. Paul Cartwright highlighted a number of areas from both. He also noted that <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> ID Cards were being produced and the following requested an ID Card: David Newson, Steven Turnbull, Paul Cartwright, Ben Bennington, Franklin Owusu-Antwi, Stephen Rowland-Jones, Irene Wills, Heather Smith, Jeff Spencer.</p>

<p>An action to be made is to inform Veterans UK of those requiring <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> ID Cards.</p>

<h2>
<abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> Centenary/<abbr title="South West of England">SW</abbr> representation</h2>

<p>Paul Cartwright outlined the proposals for marking <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr>’s Centenary year in 2021.  He requested a volunteer to be the <abbr title="South West of England">SW</abbr> rep but none was forthcoming.</p>

<p>A follow-up action is to write to suitable candidate(s) to persuade them to take this on.</p>

<h2>Veterans Gateway (<abbr title="Veterans Gateway">VG</abbr>) Stakeholder Group</h2>

<p>Paul Cartwright noted that there was no longer a <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> national Rep on this group, it had a new chair and that the Ministry of Defence had decided to continue funding Veterans Gateway (<abbr title="Veterans Gateway">VG</abbr>) rather than asking charities to take it on.</p>

<p>In a related topic,  David Luscombe reported that a <abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> rep from Centurion (Plymouth) was involved in a new initiative backed by Minister for Defence People and Veterans, the Defence Transition Scheme (<abbr title="Defence Transition Scheme">DTS</abbr>) and it was hoped this would lead to a permanent post (more detail in <abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> heading).</p>

<p>A discussion followed in which the following points were raised: <abbr title="Ministry of Defence">MoD</abbr> funding was welcomed as it gave them some ownership and authority in a forum largely led by the charity sector; there was a risk that <abbr title="Defence Transition Scheme">DTS</abbr>, unless carefully coordinated with <abbr title="Veterans Gateway">VG</abbr>, would over-complicate Veteran signposting; <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> has an important ‘signposting’ role, so there was concern that the <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> input on the development of <abbr title="Veterans Gateway">VG</abbr> (an <abbr title="Ministry of Defence">MoD</abbr>-led signposting tool) would be marginalised without national representation on the <abbr title="Veterans Gateway">VG</abbr> Stakeholder Group; and that the <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> role is ‘out of date’ (for example, members are also approached by those serving (for advice on charities and legal representation).</p>

<p>An action is to consult Chair of Chairs and ensure Jeff Spencer conducts ‘handover’ with new <abbr title="Veterans Gateway">VG</abbr> Chair.</p>

<p>Another action is to develop list of National Issues.</p>

<h2>Communications</h2>

<p>Jeff Spencer gave further detail on his proposal for a National <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> website: a public area with links to Veterans UK website, as now, and possibly a mechanism to allow veteran feedback; a private space to store documents, exchange ideas etc.</p>

<p>Funding from Force in Mind Trust was being sought to link in to a Ruskin University veterans’ platform.  Needs buy-in from Veterans UK and COBSEO.</p>

<p>The following points were made: need to be cautious about what is included in minutes and feedback platforms can become whinge-fests, requiring considerable moderation. Paul Cartwright reminded all that they had the opportunity to comment on draft south west records of decisions (RoDs), including removing sensitive material before RoDs are put on the website.</p>

<h2>
<abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> Update</h2>

<p>David Luscombe updated the meeting on:</p>

<h3>The Defence Transition Scheme</h3>

<p>Run by a small C1-led team who would liaise with service head quarters by region. Complementary to CTP and other transition services, a more proactive element of Veterans Gateway, more than helping just the wounded, injured and sick. Will have a contact number. Likely to be a press launch.</p>

<h3>
<abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> Numbers</h3>

<p><abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> still not fully manned.</p>

<h3>Casework</h3>

<p>Universal Credit ignores Pensions/Armed Forces Compensation Scheme (<abbr title="Armed Forces Compensation Scheme">AFCS</abbr>) but transition from housing benefit may drag veterans into applying (application by family).  AF champions in <abbr title="Department for Work and Pensions">DWP</abbr> are helping. 18 month delay on claims and 2+ years on appeals, hence Veterans UK drive for move to digital files.</p>

<h3>
<abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> Stats</h3>

<p><abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> south east has raised concern that <abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> no longer provide statistical feedback on veterans’ issues.  Chair of Chairs dealing.</p>

<h3><abbr title="Armed Forces Compensation Scheme">AFCS</abbr></h3>

<p>Explosion in in-service <abbr title="Armed Forces Compensation Scheme">AFCS</abbr> claims. <abbr title="Veterans Welfare Service">VWS</abbr> also involved in these in-service cases.</p>

<h2>Covenant Activity</h2>

<p>The following updated the committee about Armed Forces Covenant work in their areas:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>Franklin Owusu-Antwi (S Gloucester); local authorities need to consider using the Armed Forces Covenant Fund, focus on ‘community’ on 17/6, no AF Champion as yet, all <abbr title="National Health Service">NHS</abbr> <abbr title="General Practioners">GPs</abbr> engaged, links with Wilts (Gold Award), <abbr title="Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association">SSAFA</abbr>/<abbr title="Royal British Legion">RBL</abbr> liaison reaching out (e.g. to <abbr title="Ministry of Defence">MoD</abbr> Abbeywood)</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Franklin Owusu-Antwi (Bristol); a challenge (no activity) so engaging Mayor. Have signed Armed Forces Covenant and Mayor has appointed a armed forces champion</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Stephen Rowland-Jones (Salisbury); no activity. 26 to 28 June Armed Forces Day activity in Salisbury</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Jeff Spencer (Cornwall); a work in progress!</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Jeff Spencer (Somerset); highlighted PH’s report circulated with agenda. Somerset a good example of where AF Covenant working well – will highlight some best practice with Cornwall. The required action is to look at Somerset report and feed best practice into respective LAs.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Ash Jones (Justice System); 6% in prison system claim AF background. Pensions stop when in prison.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Heather Smith (Torbay); still moving towards being subsumed into Devon.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Irene Wills (Plymouth); very large steering committee, homeless/housing main issue has central point of focus, think Wilts initiative is too Wilts/Army focused.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Steven Turnbull; we should update Armed Forces Covenant activity by employees.</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>Cornwall Festival Initiative</h2>

<p>Jeff Spencer outlined ‘Veterans Fest’ progress.  Aim is to show that veterans can make positive contributions to the community. A music festival with 1000 campers, professionally run. Will be some stands: charities, associations. Website at: VetsFest.uk. Looking for sponsors. Action for all is to publicise event and look for sponsors.</p>

<h2>
<abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> Casework</h2>

<p>Tom Coyle briefed on a recent case from Veterans UK, involving a request for early payment of a deferred pension.  Noted this is only possible if unable to work (for more than 10 years) or terminal illness (less than a year).</p>

<p>Also noted that <abbr title="Post Traumatic Stress Disorder">PTSD</abbr> claims must be within 3 years of diagnosis. This case highlighted that <abbr title="Veterans Advisory Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> casework is important.</p>

<p>General discussion about claims for deafness and likely spike in claims due to recent large settlement in one particular case (although there were unique aspects in this case that will not apply to most retrospective claims).</p>

<h2>Recruiting</h2>

<p>Paul Cartwright noted that 6 <abbr title="South West of England">SW</abbr> members reach their 9 year point this year and he would need to manage this – didn’t want all 6 leaving at the same time. Intend to recruit  6 this year to keep above requirement for minimum of 12.</p>

<h2>Any other business</h2>

<h3>Internal Training</h3>

<p>Paul Cartwright asked if any members required/wanted to attend internal training on 2 October: Stephen Rowland-Jones put his name forward. Action to forward Stephen Rowland-Jones’s name to training organiser.</p>

<h3>Cornwall Show</h3>

<p>Jeff Spencer was requested to provide Veterans Fest leaflets to distribute at the Cornwall Show (22 June).  Action to provide Cornwall Show with leaflets.</p>

<h3>Military Injury Claims</h3>

<p>Concern was raised about the increasing number of veterans and service personnel that appeared to be using companies charging them to pursue military injury claims. Action to inform Veterans UK of apparent trend.</p>

<p>The meeting closed at 1:00pm.</p>

</div>


</div>
</div>
  </div>

  <div class="sticky-element" data-sticky-element="">
    <a class="govuk-link app-c-back-to-top dont-print" href="#contents">
    <svg class="app-c-back-to-top__icon" focusable="false" height="17" viewBox="0 0 13 17" width="13" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
      <path d="M6.5 0L0 6.5 1.4 8l4-4v12.7h2V4l4.3 4L13 6.4z" fill="currentColor"></path>
    </svg>
    Contents
</a>

    <div class="sticky-element__print-link">
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

    </main>