<main class="html-publication" lang="en" role="main">
      

  <div class="publication-external">
    <ul class="organisation-logos">
        <li class="organisation-logos__logo">
          
<div class="gem-c-organisation-logo brand--department-for-business-innovation-skills">
    <a class="gem-c-organisation-logo__container gem-c-organisation-logo__link brand__border-color" href="/government/organisations/dounreay">
      <img alt="Dounreay " class="gem-c-organisation-logo__image" src="https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/organisation/logo/1238/Dounreay_logo.jpg">
</a>
</div>
        </li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <header class="gem-c-inverse-header  gem-c-inverse-header--padding-top ">
    
  

<div class="gem-c-title gem-c-title--inverse govuk-!-margin-top-8 govuk-!-margin-bottom-0">
      <span class="govuk-caption-xl gem-c-title__context">
    Guidance
  </span>


  <h1 class="gem-c-title__text govuk-heading-xl">
    Dounreay Socio Economic Board minutes - 19 September 2019 
  </h1>
</div>
  <p class="publication-header__last-changed">Updated 17 May 2022</p>

  </header>



<div class="govuk-grid-row sidebar-with-body" data-module="sticky-element-container">

  <div class="print-wrapper">
    <div class="print-meta-data">
      <p>
  <img class="print-meta-data-licence" src="/assets/government-frontend/open-government-licence-min-93b6a51b518ff99714a1aa2a7d2162735c155ec3cb073c75fb88b2a332fa83d3.png">
</p>
<p>
  © Crown copyright 2022
</p>
<p>
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit <a href="https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3">nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3</a> or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: <a href="mailto:psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk">psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
</p>
<p>
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/socio-economic-support-for-communities-near-dounreay/minutes-of-the-dounreay-socio-economic-board-dseb-held-on-thursday-19-september-2019-at-1400-in-d2003-conference-room-40
</p>


    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="main-content-container offset-empty-contents-list">
    <div class="gem-c-govspeak-html-publication">
  
<div class="gem-c-govspeak govuk-govspeak " data-module="govspeak">
    
    
      <div class="govspeak">
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Name</th>
      <th scope="col">Organisation represented and job title</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Present:	Martin Moore</td>
      <td>Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd (<abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr>) Managing Director</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Simon Middlemas</td>
      <td>Cavendish Dounreay Partnership (CDP) Socio Economic support</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>June Love</td>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> Socio Economic Manager</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Paul Hetherington</td>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> Head of Communications</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Anna MacConnell</td>
      <td>Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (<abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr>) Socio Economic Manager</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Andrew Van Der Lem</td>
      <td>
<abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> Head of Government Relations and Socio Economics</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Peter Faccenda</td>
      <td>Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership (<abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr>) Programme Manager (agenda item 7 only)</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<h4>Welcome and introductions</h4>

<p>Martin Moore welcomed everyone to the meeting and noted that Andrew Van Der Lem, <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> Head of Government Relations and Socio Economics had joined the meeting via teleconference.</p>

<p>Conflicts of Interest:  Martin Moore requested all members to raise any potential conflicts of interest. The following was noted:</p>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Name</th>
      <th scope="col">Conflict of interest</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Anna MacConnell</td>
      <td>Scrabster Harbour Trust: a family member was now renting premises at the harbour. While she had no involvement in this business she had informed the <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> previously</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>June Love</td>
      <td>Space Hub Sutherland project (50% secondment to support project)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Simon Middlemas</td>
      <td>Space Hub Sutherland project support and CDP Engineering Hub sustainability project</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<h4>Apologies received</h4>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Name</th>
      <th scope="col">Organisation represented and job title</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Mark Raffle</td>
      <td>
<abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> Lead Programme Manager</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Lesley Sewell</td>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> Business Services Director</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Niall Watson</td>
      <td>Dounreay Unions</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<p>Anna MacConnell noted that Mark Raffle would be standing down from attending this meeting. Discussions were currently ongoing as to the most appropriate <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> representative to replace Mark. Martin Moore asked that a letter be written to Mark Raffle thanking him for his contributions to the Board over the years.</p>

<p>Action: <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A001 - <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> chairman to write to Mark Raffle thanking him for his contribution to the Dounreay Socio Economic Board by 25 September 2019.</p>

<h4>Approval of previous minutes</h4>

<p>Martin Moore noted that all members had received copies of the last minutes – <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002 – in advance of the meeting. It was agreed that the minutes were a true reflection of the meeting. This was proposed by Paul Hetherington and seconded by Simon MIddlemas.</p>

<p>Action: <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A002 - June Love to finalise DESB(2019)M002 and publish on website by 30 September 2019.</p>

<h4>Status of actions</h4>

<p>The following actions were noted as ongoing:</p>

<p><abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002/A004 - Lesley Sewell to consider the findings of the full Public Service Obligation (PSO) report and explore whether DRSL (and CDP) could support the potential underpinning of seats.  Action ongoing.</p>

<p>All other actions had been completed since the last meeting and are recorded at the end of these minutes.  Martin Moore asked for due dates to be included in all actions.</p>

<p>Action: <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A003 - June Love to ensure all actions have deadline dates recorded by 25 September 2019.</p>

<h4>
<abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> socio economic budget spend/projections</h4>

<p>June Love provided a summary of the socio economic spend to date and the estimated out-turn at year end. There was a discussion around the underspend from 2018/19 and Martin Moore asked for clarity as to whether this funding could be accommodated within the annual site funding limit (ASFL). Anna MacConnell noted that the <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> had previously provided approval to carry over up to a maximum of £150k per year and was currently in discussion about increasing that to £350k.</p>

<p>Martin Moore asked that:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>The financial information be provided at each meeting in a different format. Action: <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A004:  June Love to provide financial updates at each <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> using the waterfall format by 15 December 2019.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Confirmation be provided by the <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> Business Services Director that the underspend from 2018/19 can be accommodated within the current ASFL. Action: <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A005: Lesley Sewell to confirm whether the underspend from 2018/19 can be accommodated within the current AFSL by 30 September 2019.</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<h4>
<abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> update</h4>

<p>Andrew Van Der Lem updated on the following:</p>

<ul>
  <li>£5 million funding support for Scrabster Harbour Trust announced at the end of March 2019</li>
  <li>The development of the revised <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> socio economic strategy to ensure consistent approach across the <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> estate</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> Corporate Central had approx. £3 million for socio economic projects this year – funding to cover Magnox and Dounreay sites</li>
  <li>Two funding requests: Space Hub Sutherland and North Highland College campus redevelopment</li>
  <li>Explored opportunities for <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> and <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> funding to align for some <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> projects.</li>
</ul>

<p>Simon Middlemas noted that the announcement on funding for Scrabster Harbour Trust had been welcomed.  He also noted that the North Highland College campus redevelopment was still to be put through the <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> process to determine whether it will sit on the <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> programme.</p>

<h4>
<abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> update</h4>

<p>Peter Faccenda, <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Programme Manager thanked <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> for inviting him to the meeting.  He provided an update on the <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> priority projects and outlined a number of projects that would require partner funding to allow them to be progressed.  He outlined the following projects with a potential request for <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> funding:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Space Hub Sutherland project</li>
  <li>Battery North</li>
  <li>Apprenticeship Co-ordination Centre</li>
  <li>Airport PSO project</li>
  <li>Sustainability</li>
</ul>

<p>It was noted that <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> funding support for this financial year had already been committed to:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
<abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Programme support</li>
  <li>Caithness Transport Forum</li>
  <li>ETEC Manager</li>
  <li>Business Mentoring support</li>
  <li>Caithness Horizons</li>
  <li>Wick Harbour Authority, high water gate technical review</li>
</ul>

<p>Discussion followed the update and Martin Moore thanked Peter Faccenda for attending.  He noted that the <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> would now consider the discussion in terms of funding support for this financial year and the outcome would be provided to Peter Faccenda as soon as possible.  Peter Faccenda thanked the board and left the meeting.</p>

<p>Discussion then centred round the potential funding support that could be provided and it was agreed that consideration would be given to providing funding for the following:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Battery North</li>
  <li>Airport PSO project</li>
  <li>Sustainability project</li>
  <li>Space Hub Sutherland project</li>
</ul>

<p>While it was noted that the shared community apprenticeship centre was also a priority it was felt that further work had to be undertaken before a credible business plan was available to judge priority support.</p>

<p>It was also noted that the extent of funding support would be informed by the decision on whether the underspend from 2018/19 can be accommodated within the current ASFL.</p>

<p>Anna MacConnell noted that <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> should also consider asking <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Programme Manager to explore other partner funding for these projects.</p>

<p>Action: <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A006 - June Love to develop a draft proposal for funding support towards <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> projects taking on board potential funding scenarios by 30 September 2019.</p>

<h4>CDP update</h4>

<p>Simon Middlemas noted the following:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
<abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Executive Board meeting: It was noted that
 1. The board had approved the priority projects noting that some required further work to outline the scope of the project.
    <ol>
      <li>The strategy had been agreed with some small changes.</li>
      <li>A presentation on the sustainability project had been provided.</li>
      <li>Requirement for a communications plan.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>CN Engineering Hub: Discussions continued with Cavendish Nuclear with a recent meeting with Kenny Douglas, Parent Body Organisation. The <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> Organisational Excellence Director who would be taking up post shortly would be requested to provide some support to take this project forward.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> funding discussion</h4>

<p>It was noted that this discussion had taken place immediately after <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Programme Manager’s update.</p>

<p>June Love stated that there was one outstanding funding application requesting £30k over 2 years to support Science Technology Engineering and Maths (STEM) (Space) related activities. She stated that she had circulated the application at the beginning of July but given there had been no outcome via correspondence a decision was now required. She noted that she would not take part in the discussion given her involvement with the Space Hub Sutherland project. Simon Middlemas also noted he would not take part in the discussion.</p>

<p>Anna MacConnell noted that Mark Raffle had sent his comments on the application. June Love stated that she had been in meetings all day and therefore had not seen these as yet.</p>

<p>Martin Moore asked for thoughts of those round the table who could contribute to a discussion. One member said he would be happy to support with a couple of caveats.  Another member felt that was not the right time and a number of questions remained unanswered. Martin Moore stated that he was uncomfortable to support an application that was split in the support and therefore this application had not been approved at this time.</p>

<p>Action: <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A007 - June Love to write to applicant of STEM (Space) funding application with outcome of <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> decision by 25 September 2019.</p>

<h4>
<abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> update</h4>

<p>June Love noted that the majority of funding conditions for the various projects supported were on track with the exception of:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Caithness Horizons: full funding would not be provided this year as the facility had not yet opened.  She was continuing to request progress updates from The Highland Council for a timeline for the re-opening of the facility.</li>
  <li>Objectives for the Engineering, Technology and the Energy Centre (ETEC) Manager had been slightly delayed.  A meeting had taken place to request the information before funding would be released.</li>
  <li>Wick Harbour Trust high water gate technical review:  This project has been slightly delayed and a letter has been written to explain that the funding would only be available this year. A timeline for the technical review to be undertaken was expected shortly.</li>
</ul>

<h4>Communications</h4>

<p>Paul Hetherington stated he was considering some positive articles around the airport sustainability model (PSO for the airport) and the <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> support for the ETEC Manager.</p>

<h4>Any other business</h4>

<p>June Love noted that the Dounreay Unions had met with Jamie Stone, MP and representatives of the <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> to discuss socio economic topics. However, Niall Watson had not been able to attend this meeting and therefore would carry this over to the next meeting.</p>

<h4>Close</h4>
<p>There being no further business, Martin Moore thanked everyone for their input and formally closed the meeting.</p>

<p>Martin Moore
Chairman, Dounreay Socio Economic Board
Dounreay Managing Director
21 September 2019</p>

<h4>Actions arising from this meeting</h4>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Action number</th>
      <th scope="col">Action description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A001</td>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> chairman to write to Mark Raffle thanking him for his contribution to the Dounreay Socio Economic Board by 25 September 2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A002</td>
      <td>June Love to finalise DESB(2019)M002 and publish on website by 30 September 2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A003</td>
      <td>June Love to ensure all actions have a deadline dates recorded by 25 September 2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A004</td>
      <td>June Love to provide financial updates at each <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> using the waterfall format by 15 December 2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A005</td>
      <td>Lesley Sewell to confirm whether the underspend from 2018/19 can be accommodated within the current AFSL by 30 September 2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A006</td>
      <td>June Love to develop a draft proposal for funding support towards <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> projects taking on board potential funding scenarios by 30 September 2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M003/A007</td>
      <td>June Love to write to applicant of STEM (Space) funding application with outcome of <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> decision by 25 September 2019</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<h4>Actions ongoing from previous meetings</h4>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Action number</th>
      <th scope="col">Action description</th>
      <th scope="col">Action update</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002/A004</td>
      <td>Lesley Sewell to consider the findings of the full PSO report and explore whether <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> (and CDP) could support the potential underpinning of seats  by 15 December 2019</td>
      <td>Action complete since last meeting</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M001/A002</td>
      <td>Anna MacConnell to continue to progress a response to the potential front loading of the Dounreay Socio Economic budget and report back as soon as a response has been provided by the <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> Executive. Action complete: <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> had considered this and passed it back to <abbr title="Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd">DSRL</abbr> to consider whether this could be undertaken within the existing ASFL. Martin Moore noted that the budget for the coming years was already over-pressurised and therefore it would be difficult to consider this</td>
      <td>&nbsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>DESB(2019)M001/A006</td>
      <td>Anna MacConnell to provide an update at next <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> meeting on the <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> Executive decision on socio economic funding for Caithness and North Sutherland.  Action complete: An announcement was made at the end of March relating to £5 million grant funding to support Scrabster Harbour Trust with the redevelopment of the St Ola Pier.  The other 2 projects with funding requests were discussed at the meeting held on 19 September 2019</td>
      <td>&nbsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002/A001</td>
      <td>June Love to finalise DESB(2019)M001 and publish on website</td>
      <td>Action complete</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002/A002</td>
      <td>Mark Raffle to speak to Anna MacConnell to request an outline of the protocol for communications of <abbr title="Nuclear Decommissioning Authority">NDA</abbr> socio economic funding announcements</td>
      <td>Action complete</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002/A003</td>
      <td>June Love to write to Scrabster Harbour Trust to close out existing funding application for support to the redevelopment of the St Ola Pier</td>
      <td>Action complete</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002/A005</td>
      <td>June Love to provide <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr> comments to <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Programme Manager on the funding application for an environmental impact assessment (EIA) for North Coast 500</td>
      <td>Action complete</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
<abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>(2019)M002/A006</td>
      <td>June Love to invite <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Chair and Programme Manager (and Chair if available) to attend the next <abbr title="Dounreay Socio Economic Board">DSEB</abbr>. Action complete: The Chair was unavailable to attend. Peter Faccenda, <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> Programme Manager attended this meeting to provide an update on <abbr title="Caithness and North Sutherland Regeneration Partnership">CNSRP</abbr> priority projects</td>
      <td>&nbsp;</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

</div>


</div>
</div>
  </div>

  <div class="sticky-element" data-sticky-element="">
    <a class="govuk-link app-c-back-to-top dont-print" href="#contents">
    <svg class="app-c-back-to-top__icon" focusable="false" height="17" viewBox="0 0 13 17" width="13" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
      <path d="M6.5 0L0 6.5 1.4 8l4-4v12.7h2V4l4.3 4L13 6.4z" fill="currentColor"></path>
    </svg>
    Contents
</a>

    <div class="sticky-element__print-link">
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

    </main>