<main class="html-publication" lang="en" role="main">
      

  <div class="publication-external">
    <ul class="organisation-logos">
        <li class="organisation-logos__logo">
          
<div class="gem-c-organisation-logo">
    <a class="gem-c-organisation-logo__container gem-c-organisation-logo__link " href="/government/organisations/veterans-advisory-and-pensions-committees-x13">
      <span class="gem-c-organisation-logo__name">Veterans Advisory and <br>Pensions Committees</span>
</a>
</div>
        </li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <header class="gem-c-inverse-header  gem-c-inverse-header--padding-top ">
    
  

<div class="gem-c-title gem-c-title--inverse govuk-!-margin-top-8 govuk-!-margin-bottom-0">
      <span class="govuk-caption-xl gem-c-title__context">
    Guidance
  </span>


  <h1 class="gem-c-title__text govuk-heading-xl">
    VAPC London: meeting minutes 4 September 2019
  </h1>
</div>
  <p class="publication-header__last-changed">Updated 24 June 2022</p>

  </header>






<div class="govuk-grid-row sidebar-with-body" data-module="sticky-element-container">
    <div class="govuk-grid-column-one-quarter-from-desktop contents-list-container">
        <nav aria-label="Contents" class="gem-c-contents-list" data-module="gem-track-click" role="navigation">
    <h2 class="gem-c-contents-list__title">
      Contents
</h2>
    <ol class="gem-c-contents-list__list">
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 1" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#welcome-and-introductions" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Welcome and introductions&quot;}" href="#welcome-and-introductions">Welcome and introductions</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 2" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#apologies-for-absence" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Apologies for absence&quot;}" href="#apologies-for-absence">Apologies for absence</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 3" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#declarations-of-interest" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Declarations of interest&quot;}" href="#declarations-of-interest">Declarations of interest</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 4" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#minutes-of-previous-meeting" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Minutes of previous meeting&quot;}" href="#minutes-of-previous-meeting">Minutes of previous meeting</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 5" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#kingsley-donaldson-update" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Kingsley Donaldson: update&quot;}" href="#kingsley-donaldson-update">Kingsley Donaldson: update</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 6" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#sub-group-reports" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Sub-group reports&quot;}" href="#sub-group-reports">Sub-group reports</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 7" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#vapc-website-andy-ross" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\nVAPC website: Andy Ross&quot;}" href="#vapc-website-andy-ross">
VAPC website: Andy Ross</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 8" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#treasurers-report" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Treasurer’s report&quot;}" href="#treasurers-report">Treasurer’s report</a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 9" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#any-other-business" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;Any other business&quot;}" href="#any-other-business">Any other business</a>

        </li>
    </ol>
</nav>
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>

  <div class="print-wrapper">
    <div class="print-meta-data">
      <p>
  <img class="print-meta-data-licence" src="/assets/government-frontend/open-government-licence-min-93b6a51b518ff99714a1aa2a7d2162735c155ec3cb073c75fb88b2a332fa83d3.png">
</p>
<p>
  © Crown copyright 2022
</p>
<p>
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit <a href="https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3">nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3</a> or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: <a href="mailto:psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk">psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
</p>
<p>
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vapc-london-meeting-minutes/vapc-london-meeting-minutes-4-september-2019
</p>


    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="main-content-container">
    <div class="gem-c-govspeak-html-publication">
  
<div class="gem-c-govspeak govuk-govspeak " data-module="govspeak">
    
    
      <div class="govspeak">
<p><strong>Venue:</strong>  RAF Benevolent Fund, 67 Portland Place, London, W1B 1AR</p>

<p><strong>Date:</strong> Wednesday 4 September 2019 at 11am to 2pm</p>

<p><strong>Present:</strong></p>

<p>Jim Blake (<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr>) Acting Chair<br>
Lynne Calame (<abbr title="Lynne Calame">LC</abbr>)
Alex Jablonowski (<abbr title="Alex Jablonowski">AJ</abbr>)<br>
Ken Courtenay (<abbr title="Ken Courtenay">KC</abbr>)<br>
Paul Clabburn (<abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr>)<br>
Bob Money (<abbr title="Bob Money">BM</abbr>)<br>
Andrew Ross (<abbr title="Andrew Ross">AR</abbr>)<br>
Heather Betts (<abbr title="Heather Betts">HB</abbr>) <br>
Jim Evans (<abbr title="Jim Evans">JME</abbr>)<br>
Nick Sharpe (<abbr title="Nick Sharpe">NS</abbr>) 
Marion Knight (Secretary <abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr>)</p>

<p><strong>Apologies:</strong></p>

<p>Roger Hood (RH)<br>
Carole Woods: Veterans Welfare Officer
Gail Walker Smith (GWS)</p>

<p><strong>Observers / Guests:</strong></p>

<p>Kingsley Donaldson (National Chair <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr>)</p>

<h2>Welcome and introductions</h2>

<ul>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> explained to the Committee, as the Deputy Chair of the London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr>, he was chairing the meeting today as Lynn Verity had been advised that her tenure as Chair of the London Committee had come to an end.</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> asked that the Committee acknowledge the sad passing of Jules Eaton, former Committee Member of the London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr>. His funeral and memorial service had taken place and Lynn Verity had contributed to his obituary.</li>
  <li>Penny Long had resigned as a Committee member, for personal reasons, since the last meeting and the Committee wished to acknowledge and thank Penny for all her hard work for the London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr>.</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> welcomed Kingsley Donaldson (National Chair of VA&amp;PCs) to the meeting, who introduced himself and spoke to the Committee about his background and current <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> workload before he resigns his tenure, later in the year. The London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> members in turn introduced themselves.</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> explained that both his and <abbr title="Heather Betts">HB</abbr> tenure would end in November 2019. Both are considering whether to apply in the open competition and were encouraged by Kingsley Donaldson to do so.</li>
  <li>Veterans UK has placed adverts for new members and <abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> will send the link to <abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr> to circulate to all Committee members for interest etc.</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> gave the following brief update to the Committee:
a) the Office for Veterans Affairs had now been established
b) The Veterans ID cards’ scheme should be ready in January 2020 
c) Some London Councils had signed up again to the Armed Forces Covenant
d) Committee members would be asked to complete and submit a diversity questionnaire which he would circulate via <abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr>
e) Annual report for London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> is due and <abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> has been helping to collate this</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> suggested, given the current conditions affecting the London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> membership that it would be timely to send a note of thanks to all the organisations who had supported the London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> in the recent past. <abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> to liaise with Lynn Verity.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Apologies for absence</h2>

<p>Apologies for absence were accepted from committee member RH and GWS and Carole Woods (Veterans’ Welfare Officer).</p>

<h2>Declarations of interest</h2>

<p>The Chairman reminded Committee members that they must declare any interest arising out of their personal/business life which could conflict with <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> business.</p>

<h2>Minutes of previous meeting</h2>

<p>Minutes of previous Meeting were agreed with two minor wording amendments:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Item 7 (6) change rewards to records</li>
  <li>Item 5 (7) hoping to be an ongoing working group.</li>
</ul>

<p><abbr title="Jim Evans">JME</abbr> suggested in future the minutes are verified before the next meeting, as there is a 3-month delay before publication. Committee agreed that <abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr> will send these minutes to <abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> to review and the and then <abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr> will circulate to members for ratification.</p>

<p><abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> went through actions arising from minutes to understand progress.</p>

<p><abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr> was requested to send the Minutes to Norcross for publication.</p>

<h2>Kingsley Donaldson: update</h2>

<p>The Committee members and Kingsley Donaldson debated the purpose of VA&amp;PCs.</p>

<h2>Sub-group reports:</h2>

<h3>Housing: Paul Clabburn</h3>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p><abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> explained that there was little to update upon since the Housing Seminar. There was a hiatus on all fronts. Greenwich and Hounslow Councils need to be chased. Kent University representatives have been on holiday</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Kent University, London Borough Councils, the Covenant and Royal British Legion are key stakeholders and therefore it is important work starts again</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p><abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> asked all Committee members to ensure that contact is made with the Borough Councils they are linked to ensure the good work that started with the Housing Seminar continues. <abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> explained an email template for this purpose has already been circulated to Committee members to send to Armed Forces Champions and <abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> urged members to send this out if not already done so</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p><abbr title="Andrew Ross">AR</abbr> and <abbr title="Bob Money">BM</abbr> will take the helm for this sub-group as <abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> is away for two months</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Centenary: Lynne Calame</h3>

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>There has been some engagement, but it is slow due to the summer recess</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>National Memorial Arboretum- there needs to be some further contact within the next few months to talk dates</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>The Guildhall Lunch need to make contact in November when there is a new Mayor. <abbr title="Lynne Calame">LC</abbr> explained that a definitive date will be required</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>TV documentary still a possibility. <abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> explained that all VA&amp;PCs would need to have involvement</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>The Royal Mail Stamp appears to be a non-starter. Kingsley Donaldson suggested widening the scope of involvement in this idea to see whether there is appetite for this. Kingsley commented that be believes the RBL are up for a wider support and dialogue with regards to the Centenary</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>At next chair of chairs meeting in November, Kingsley Donaldson’s last meeting, he will push this on the agenda to move it forward. It is important that each Committee has a focus for the Centenary, and this will be very much dependent on localities as one size does not fit all and this should be acknowledged</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>The focus should be on the 100+10 and <abbr title="Heather Betts">HB</abbr> noted we should be celebrating veterans who are living</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p><abbr title="Lynne Calame">LC</abbr> noted the communications plan links into the strapline 100+10 and she explained quarterly conference calls with reps from all <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> committees have been organized and they will be looking at what has been achieved and what can be achieved in the next 10 years</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Budget for the Centenary celebrations will need to be nationally driven.</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Policy and government affairs: Jim Blake</h3>

<ul>
  <li>Ben Wallace appointed as new minister</li>
  <li>recruitment under way for <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> members</li>
  <li>responded to both panel cases and no further communication. <abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> had support from JTS before resignation and also Vets UK</li>
  <li>new office for Veterans Affairs</li>
</ul>

<h3>Health and welfare: Heather Betts</h3>

<ul>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> noted with the resignation of Penny Long and Julie Thain Smith that there needs to be a refocus on this sub-group’s membership</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Heather Betts">HB</abbr> explained the sub- group still attended the London Armed Forces Network.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Employment</h3>

<p>Alex Jablonowski report circulated prior to meeting</p>

<ul>
  <li>the employment works continues but there have been changes at the helm of Barclays</li>
  <li>London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> can continue to support with encouraging mentors and employees to join the employment work</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Alex Jablonowski">AJ</abbr> said it would be good to get the support of other VA&amp;PCs, as it is currently London centric and there would be great value to spread this across the Country. Kingsley Donaldson suggested in March 2020 the Chairs should have their meeting with the minister at Barclays where employment, housing and the Centenary should all be on the agenda.</li>
</ul>

<p>As acting chair, <abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> would bring to the next Chairs of Chair meeting in November and Kingsley Donaldson will support this.</p>

<h3>Awareness and Communication: Paul Clabburn</h3>

<p><abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> explained that in the London <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> annual report there will be a reflection of the achievements of the London Committee and this will focus on the engagement of the committee with key stakeholders and other organisations.</p>

<h2>
<abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> website: Andy Ross</h2>

<ul>
  <li>communications group Dan Brookes, Geoff Spencer and Andy Ross</li>
  <li>communications planning meeting in Bristol next week, an external Company coming and assisting the group</li>
  <li>a communications and engagement strategy will be presented at the Chairman’s meeting in November. Funding will need to be found with the help of the Chairs; maybe Forces in Mind Trust</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Paul Clabburn">PC</abbr> commented that the website needs the buy in of all <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> Committees to use the website</li>
  <li>Kingsley Donaldson explained that this is a portal with a wider scope, Chairs need to be held to account for input.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Treasurer’s report</h2>

<p><abbr title="Alex Jablonowski">AJ</abbr>: report was circulated prior to meeting</p>

<p>£330 in bank account.</p>

<h2>Any other business</h2>

<p>Date of next meeting: Monday 2 December 2019.</p>

<ul>
  <li>
<abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr> asked for a minute taker as she will not be able to attend the December meeting. <abbr title="Andrew Ross">AR</abbr> volunteered to take the minutes</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> suggested the December 2019 meeting is organised with a Christmas meal and suggested members who have left the Committee during the year be invited to attend.  Members will look at venues and advise <abbr title="Marion Knight (Secretary)">MK</abbr> if she needs to cancel the RAF Benevolent Fund arrangements</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Lynne Calame">LC</abbr> will put <abbr title="Veterans’ Advisory and Pensions Committee">VA&amp;PC</abbr> vacancies on her linked in account</li>
  <li>
<abbr title="Jim Evans">JME</abbr> referenced the new handbook with regards the completing of appraisals on a yearly basis. <abbr title="Jim Blake">JB</abbr> said he would liaise with Lynn Verity with regards this.</li>
</ul>

</div>


</div>
</div>
  </div>

  <div class="sticky-element" data-sticky-element="">
    <a class="govuk-link app-c-back-to-top dont-print" href="#contents">
    <svg class="app-c-back-to-top__icon" focusable="false" height="17" viewBox="0 0 13 17" width="13" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
      <path d="M6.5 0L0 6.5 1.4 8l4-4v12.7h2V4l4.3 4L13 6.4z" fill="currentColor"></path>
    </svg>
    Contents
</a>

    <div class="sticky-element__print-link">
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

    </main>