<main class="html-publication" lang="en" role="main">
      

  <div class="publication-external">
    <ul class="organisation-logos">
        <li class="organisation-logos__logo">
          
<div class="gem-c-organisation-logo">
    <a class="gem-c-organisation-logo__container gem-c-organisation-logo__link " href="/government/organisations/veterans-advisory-and-pensions-committees-x13">
      <span class="gem-c-organisation-logo__name">Veterans Advisory and <br>Pensions Committees</span>
</a>
</div>
        </li>
    </ul>
  </div>

  <header class="gem-c-inverse-header  gem-c-inverse-header--padding-top ">
    
  

<div class="gem-c-title gem-c-title--inverse govuk-!-margin-top-8 govuk-!-margin-bottom-0">
      <span class="govuk-caption-xl gem-c-title__context">
    Guidance
  </span>


  <h1 class="gem-c-title__text govuk-heading-xl">
    VAPC London: meeting minutes 25 March 2020
  </h1>
</div>
  <p class="publication-header__last-changed">Updated 31 March 2022</p>

  </header>



<div class="govuk-grid-row sidebar-with-body" data-module="sticky-element-container">
    <div class="govuk-grid-column-one-quarter-from-desktop contents-list-container">
        <nav aria-label="Contents" class="gem-c-contents-list" data-module="gem-track-click" role="navigation">
    <h2 class="gem-c-contents-list__title">
      Contents
</h2>
    <ol class="gem-c-contents-list__list">
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 1" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#welcome-and-introductions" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n1. Welcome and introductions&quot;}" href="#welcome-and-introductions"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">1. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Welcome and introductions</span></a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 2" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#apologies-for-absence" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n2. Apologies for absence&quot;}" href="#apologies-for-absence"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">2. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Apologies for absence</span></a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 3" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#declarations-of-interest" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n3. Declarations of interest&quot;}" href="#declarations-of-interest"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">3. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Declarations of interest</span></a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 4" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#minutes-of-previous-meeting" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n4. Minutes of previous meeting&quot;}" href="#minutes-of-previous-meeting"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">4. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Minutes of previous meeting</span></a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 5" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#recruiting-for-new-members-2020" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n5. Recruiting for new members 2020&quot;}" href="#recruiting-for-new-members-2020"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">5. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Recruiting for new members 2020</span></a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 6" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#housing-seminar-reports" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n6. Housing seminar reports&quot;}" href="#housing-seminar-reports"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">6. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Housing seminar reports</span></a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 7" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#centenary--rh" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n7. Centenary – RH&quot;}" href="#centenary--rh"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">7. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Centenary – RH</span></a>

        </li>
        <li class="gem-c-contents-list__list-item gem-c-contents-list__list-item--numbered">
          <a class="gem-c-contents-list__link govuk-link govuk-link--no-underline" data-track-action="content_item 8" data-track-category="contentsClicked" data-track-label="#sub-group-reports" data-track-options="{&quot;dimension29&quot;:&quot;\n8. Sub-group reports&quot;}" href="#sub-group-reports"><span class="gem-c-contents-list__number">8. </span><span class="gem-c-contents-list__numbered-text">Sub-group reports</span></a>

        </li>
    </ol>
</nav>
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>

  <div class="print-wrapper">
    <div class="print-meta-data">
      <p>
  <img class="print-meta-data-licence" src="/assets/government-frontend/open-government-licence-min-93b6a51b518ff99714a1aa2a7d2162735c155ec3cb073c75fb88b2a332fa83d3.png">
</p>
<p>
  © Crown copyright 2022
</p>
<p>
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit <a href="https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3">nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3</a> or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: <a href="mailto:psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk">psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
</p>
<p>
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vapc-london-meeting-minutes/vapc
</p>


    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="main-content-container">
    <div class="gem-c-govspeak-html-publication">
  
<div class="gem-c-govspeak govuk-govspeak " data-module="govspeak">
    
    
      <div class="govspeak">
<p><strong>Venue:</strong> Skype call</p>

<p><strong>Date:</strong> 25 March 2020</p>

<p><strong>Time:</strong> 11.00am to 11.35am</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">0.1 </span>Present:</h3>

<p>Jim Blake (JB) - Acting Chair</p>

<p>Lynne Calame (LC)</p>

<p>Roger Hood (RH)</p>

<p>Gail Walker Smith (GWS)</p>

<p>Ken Courtenay (KC)</p>

<p>Alex Woolgar Toms (AWT)</p>

<p>Matthew Seward (MS)</p>

<p>Wendy Morris (WM)</p>

<p>Marion Knight (Secretary)</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">0.2 </span>Apologies:</h3>

<p>Paul Clabburn (PC)</p>

<p>Nick Sharpe (NS)</p>

<p>Jim Blake (JB)</p>

<p>Alex Jablonowski (AJ)</p>

<p>Heather Betts (HB)</p>

<p>Andrew Ross (AR)</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">0.3 </span>Observers / Guests:</h3>

<p>Not Applicable</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">1. </span>Welcome and introductions</h2>

<ul>
  <li>JME welcomed new members WM, AWT and MS</li>
  <li>WM, AWT and MS all individually introduced themselves</li>
  <li>JME also reported that whilst he was not aware of who had been appointed as the new London VA&amp;PC chair, he was aware that JB had not been successful. JME would follow up as to whether there was a possibility of JB being co-opted onto the Committee once a new Chair has been appointed</li>
</ul>

<p>This was actioned by JME</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">2. </span>Apologies for absence</h2>

<p>Apologies noted from AJ,PC, HB, JB, AR and NS</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">3. </span>Declarations of interest</h2>

<p>The Chairman reminded Committee members that they must declare any interest arising out of their personal/business life which could conflict with <abbr title="Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committee">VAPC</abbr> business. WM declared she was a member of the League of Remembrance; MS declared his position with <abbr title="Royal British Legion">RBL</abbr>, and KC has recently been appointed Treasurer of the <abbr title="Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Families Association">SSAFA</abbr> Somerset branch.</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">4. </span>Minutes of previous meeting</h2>

<p>Minutes of previous Meeting – no commentary other than one typing error under MOD page 2 which should have read <abbr title="Royal British Legion">RBL</abbr> not <abbr title="Royal Bank of Scotland">RBS</abbr>. MK agreed to alter.</p>

<p>This was actioned by MK.</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">5. </span>Recruiting for new members 2020</h2>

<ul>
  <li>JME explained that there had been a recent successful recruitment campaign, with HB being successful in being re-appointed and WM, AWT and MS being appointed to the London VA&amp;PC Committee</li>
  <li>JME explained that 2021 there would be further recruitment challenges with PC, AJ and KC all having served 3 terms and would need to go through the recruitment process gain should they wish to continue to serve on the Committee. RH would complete his second term in office and will also have to go through recruitment.  LC and JME will complete a first term in office and will have to apply for extension for a second term.</li>
  <li>JME urged all committee members to identify potential new members now and encourage them to apply when the recruitment process opens in September 2020</li>
</ul>

<p>This will be actioned by all members.</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">6. </span>Housing seminar reports</h2>

<ul>
  <li>PC had circulated report prior to meeting to all Committee members. JME commented PC has suggested the way ahead includes recruitment of researcher to help us through next steps but this will require funding and ‘buy-in’ by London Boroughs and other parties.  A decision will be required by late July 2020</li>
</ul>

<p>To be actioned by PC.</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">7. </span>Centenary – RH</h2>

<ul>
  <li>Roger had circulated his report before the meeting and covered the main points at the meeting. One National Event at the National Arboretum on June 1st, 2021. More detailed plans will be required soon for the event</li>
  <li>Regional Committees who have indicated they are interested in arranging something for the centenary are doing this locally</li>
  <li>London VA&amp;PC are responsible for overall co-ordination of activities and organising a London event.  The Go/No Go decision for this will probably have to be taken by 1 July 2020</li>
  <li>There is still a desire to get support for a National documentary and PC will be co-opted onto the Centenary Committee later in the year for this purpose should it go ahead</li>
  <li>RH will need help with funds later this year – likely September 2020</li>
  <li>RH explained to the Committee that he is aware that the <abbr title="Royal British Legion">RBL</abbr> is arranging celebrations for its own centenary next year and is keeping close contact with them to ensure no overlap. MS explained that he has had some involvement with <abbr title="Royal British Legion">RBL</abbr> activities and is happy to help with ensuring there is no overlap. LC has a plan to ensure no overlap with other organisations and keep in touch with MS about the work of the <abbr title="Royal British Legion">RBL</abbr>
</li>
</ul>

<p>To be actioned by LC/MS.</p>

<h2>
<span class="number">8. </span>Sub-group reports</h2>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.1 </span>Policy and Government Affairs - JB</h3>

<p>JB had not been able to attend the call. JME explained that he had circulated the latest published Veterans factsheet to the Committee. JME said he was aware given the outbreak of COVID 19 that the Veterans Agency have suspended all WP and AFCS medicals and assessments. MS said he was aware all appeal hearings had also been cancelled until further notice.</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.2 </span>Health and welfare - HB</h3>

<p>HB will circulate her latest report  to the Committee in due course.</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.3 </span>Employment - AJ</h3>

<ul>
  <li>AJ had circulated his latest report to the Committee prior to the meeting,</li>
  <li>London VA&amp;PC are now back on the Veterans Transition and Employment Support (VETS) steering group</li>
</ul>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.4 </span>Awareness and Communication - PC</h3>

<p>There was nothing to report at this meeting.</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.5 </span>VA&amp;PC website - AR</h3>

<p>Projected costs were judged to be too high for the potential audience at this stage.</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.6 </span>Treasurer’s report - AJ (report circulated prior to the meeting)</h3>

<p>£330 in bank account.</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.7 </span>Proposed date of next meeting</h3>

<ul>
  <li>Tuesday 23rd June 2020 at RAF Benevolent Fund if the COVID 19 situation permits, otherwise another Skype call will be arranged.</li>
  <li>JME will organise another Skype call should he informed of who has been appointed Chair of the London VA&amp;PC so introductions etc. can take place</li>
</ul>

<p>To be actioned by JME.</p>

<h3>
<span class="number">8.8 </span>Any other business</h3>

<ul>
  <li>JME noted that a ‘re-shaping’ of VAPCs was proposed and had been due to be discussed at the Chair’s meeting in late April (now cancelled).  Changes may include a new name and terms of reference with the launch for the new structure expected to be 1 June 2021 to coincide with the Centenary event</li>
</ul>

</div>


</div>
</div>
  </div>

  <div class="sticky-element" data-sticky-element="">
    <a class="govuk-link app-c-back-to-top dont-print" href="#contents">
    <svg class="app-c-back-to-top__icon" focusable="false" height="17" viewBox="0 0 13 17" width="13" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
      <path d="M6.5 0L0 6.5 1.4 8l4-4v12.7h2V4l4.3 4L13 6.4z" fill="currentColor"></path>
    </svg>
    Contents
</a>

    <div class="sticky-element__print-link">
      
<div class="gem-c-print-link govuk-!-display-none-print govuk-!-margin-top-0 govuk-!-margin-bottom-6">
    <button class="govuk-link govuk-body-s gem-c-print-link__button" data-module="print-link">Print this page</button>
</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

    </main>